# Linear-System
Scientific computation coursework

This file consists of codes which are designed to help find a root of a function using different methods such as fix-point iteration and Newton's method. Then a code which helps display the difference in convergence of two systems and then the optimisation of the Fix-point iteration.

* The Fix-point iteration Part 1. This function considers the fixed-point problem g(p) = p. To numerically find a fixed point, we consider the fixed-point iteration method (p0 given). The function is mainly writen in the method of p_n = g(p_n-1) where n belongs to a set of natural numbers. The purpose of this function is to cause us to find a point of convergence after n number of iterations which in our function is Nmax, such that g(x_n) = x_n as n aproched infinity. The output of our function an numpy.ndarray called p_array, its dimension is (Nmax, ). This is provides an approximations p_n where n belongs to a set of naterual numbers computed by the fixed-point iteration.
  
* The Fix-point iteration Part 2, from here on the code is of my own. This function considers the fixed-point problem g(p) = p with the stopping criterion. To numerically find a fixed point, for which the absolute difference between  p_k and g(p_k) is less then our tolerence. We consider the fixed-point iteration method (p0 given). The function is mainly writen in the method of p_n = g(p_n-1), once the error between is below the tolerance the iteration would stop before reaching Nmax. The purpose of this function is to a value p_k which is close enough without having the function conduct a lenghty iteration using up an emense amount of run time. The output of our function an numpy.ndarray called p_array, its dimension is (k, ). This is provides an approximations p_n where n belongs to a set of naterual numbers up to k computed by the fixed-point iteration with the stopping criterion. The value of k is the smallest integer such that stopping criterion holds, unless Nmax iteration have been performed, in that case k = Nmax. 
  
* The Newton's Method, we now consider the rootfinding problem f(p) = 0. To numerically find the root, we consider Newton's Method (p0 given).
Where p_(n+1) = p_n - f(p_n)/f'(p_n). The stopping criterion causes a premature stop in our iteration |p_(k+1) - p_k| is <= TOL. The output of our function an numpy.ndarray called p_array, its dimension is (k, ). This is provides an approximations p_n where n belongs to a set of naterual numbers up to k computed by Newton's Method with the stopping criterion. The value of k is the smallest integer such that stopping criterion holds, unless Nmax iteration have been performed, in that case k = Nmax.
  
* The Convergence behaviour: Plotting the error. We start the the problem with the assumption that we know what exaclty p is. We plot the absolute value of the error, 
e_n = | p - p_n |, at each iteration. This function will just plot the error using matplotlib.pyplot. We see on of the plots the convergence of both iterative methods such as Fixed-point iteration and Newton's Method. In this we see clearly that Newton's method has a faster convergence rate in a low number of iterations, then Fix-point iteration does. Both starting from the same p0. As we see, the function creates a figure with a plot of the errors for the fixed-point iteration method, using the function fixedpoint_iteration. Also ploting, in the same axies, the errors for Newton's method. Computing the Newton-method approximations using your newton_stop, based on the input for (f,fddx,p0,Nmax) and setting TOL as very small value such as TOL = 1.0e-16. Then we we ensure the graphs can be distinguished from one another.
  
* Optimizing the Fix-point iteration Method. In this function we return the fixed-point iteration method with stopping crition and aim to optimise the parameter c within the functuion g where g(x) = x - cf(x). Our starting off peramters are (f,c_array,p0,TOL) for optimize_FPmethod. The function should return a real number/ float c_opt and the corresponding integer n_opt, which corresponds to the optional value c in the following way: the optimal c - c_opt is the element inside of our ndarray c_array, for which the fastest convergence takes place given the Tolerance value TOL, using the initual value p0. So | p_k - g(p_k) | reaches the TOL in the least number of iterations n_opt. This is so that we can a reduced run time for the machine, for a fastest system.


In conclusion these set of codes are just implementation of convegencing algorithms which i have learned in my module introduction to scientific computation, the set of codes are to help find a solution to a non_linear system as fast as possiable as seen in the code Newton's method produces the fastest convergence.
  
  
  
  
  
